LKML archives on lore.kernel.org
================================

:category: Site news
:slug: lore

You may now access the Linux Kernel Mailing List (LKML) via our new
list archive system, hosted at lore.kernel.org_. The software managing
the archive is called `Public Inbox`_ and offers the following features:

- Fast, searchable web archives
- Atom feeds per list or per individual thread
- Downloadable mbox archives to make replying easy
- Git-backed archival mechanism you can clone and pull
- Read-only nntp gateway

We collected LKML archives going as far back as 1998, and they are now
all available to anyone via a simple git clone. We would like to extend
our thanks to everyone who helped in this effort by donating their
personal archives.

Obtaining full LKML archives
----------------------------
Git clone URLs are provided at the bottom of each page. Note, that due
to its volume, the LKML archive is sharded into multiple repositories,
each roughly 1GB in size. In addition to cloning from lore.kernel.org,
you may also access these repositories on git.kernel.org_.

Dedicated LKML patchwork
------------------------

In addition to Public Inbox, we are also offering a dedicated read-only
patchwork_ instance for LKML. Patchwork makes it easy to see the
lifecycle of each patch as it makes its way from the initial submission,
through peer review, and to final acceptance into mainline. You may
access it at:

- `lore.kernel.org/patchwork`_

The LKML project hosted at patchwork.kernel.org_ will be removed to make
it easier for developers to manage the projects they actually use for
patch tracking, as the sheer volume of untracked patches on LKML was
causing significant performance slowdowns.

Linking to LKML discussions
---------------------------

If you need to reference a mailing list discussion inside code comments
or in a git commit message, the preferred way is to use the redirect
service:

1. Locate the Message-ID of the email you would like to reference.
2. To link to it, use the following scheme:
   `lkml.kernel.org/r/[message-id]`

The `/r/` redirect will use the Public Inbox archive to display the message.
In addition, it allows others to access the message on other archival
systems, by substituting `/r/` with another letter:

.. table:: Redirect URLs

    ======== ====================
    Shortcut Archive Provider
    ======== ====================
    /r/      lore.kernel.org
    /m/      marc.info
    /g/      mail-archive.com
    ======== ====================


.. _lore.kernel.org: https://lore.kernel.org/lkml/
.. _`Public Inbox`: https://public-inbox.org/design_notes.html
.. _patchwork: http://jk.ozlabs.org/projects/patchwork/
.. _`lore.kernel.org/patchwork`: https://lore.kernel.org/patchwork/
.. _patchwork.kernel.org: https://patchwork.kernel.org/
.. _git.kernel.org: https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/public-inbox/vger.kernel.org/lkml/
